Game Design Document

Game Design Document
Basic info
Jam theme
Genre description & game examples
Story
Graphics
User interface
Hotkeys
Audio List
Graphics List
Sketches
“* keep in mind the table of contents is buggy when copy pasted content is added and probably won’t show everything as copy paste does not keep text style and all text is converted into “normal text”.
Basic info
{game name} is a choose your own adventure game where x // todo

Game genre: Choose your own adventure (CYOA), Sci-Fi
Story genre: Sci-Fi
Players: 1?
Platform: Web PC (so easy to play/start & show)?
Used engines: Twine + Godot 
Audience: adults, young adults?
Game length: 5-10-15 min? Depends on the amount of content?
Etc


Jam theme
Echo


Theme images/slides by jam organizers.

Genre description & game examples
In choose your own adventure the player goes through a story and makes choices, much like in a visual novel. There can be other game mechanics also such as player inventory or health etc but those are not necessary.


Examples of real(?) CYOA books.

Modern game examples:

Story
General info and details about story: (moved to google doc)
Story can be found in Miro: https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVJVbA1wM=/

Graphics
General info about graphics:
Some bits of the story do not have associated graphics.
To save time and resources we can opt out of the main menu?
There’s a computer screen interface: see discord (Saara’s sketch)


User interface
Users can press a choice which moves them in the story. The player can use for example a keyboard to control the game (up, down, enter).

Currently there is not a polished main menu, but one can probably be created when background assets are ready.
Hotkeys
Keyboard hotkeys and pressable buttons in addition or instead. Depends on platform.

Up -> Select menu item 
Down -> Select menu item 
Enter -> Activate Menu item 
Enter -> Make text proceed faster
Other?



// NEEDED ASSETS: VISUALS, AUDIO, FONTS, ETC
Audio List
SFX
Switching page (computerized wavy sound)
Clicking the button. Like a bell/ding. Just a thought
 Dum dum dum or just a ‘bad event’ sound if the player chooses a path that has bad stuff?
Light flare (https://www.youtube.com/shorts/MPkiKEMoMv8)
Intro email:  keyboard typing sound of letter getting generated, new mail sound?
Ava appears with a positive little ping/jingle
Theo arrives at the lab: Male Footsteps
Capture protocol: Glitchy computer noise 1
Diagnostics: Glitchy computer noise 2
Bit-flip Gate/Phaseflip/Rotation Success: Positive glitchy computer jingle
Voices murmuring
Final stable memory (page13) - music if time
Security Alarms 
Heavy security doors slide open
Womans footsteps
	
Music
Intro music or background sound (short loop of synthesized sounds)
Gameplay music (wavy, spooky, synthesized)
Climax music (Intense, upbeat, highs and lows)
Music Style Suggestions
Ambient Electronic Soundscapes
Use layered synths, soft pads, and textured drones to create an otherworldly, immersive atmosphere reflecting quantum echoes and unseen dimensions.
Slow evolving sounds and subtle rhythmic pulses can mimic the fragile, fluctuating nature of quantum states.
Minimalist Orchestral Elements
Incorporate sparse piano, strings, and soft brass for emotional resonance, especially in narrative and memory sequences.
Build crescendos gradually to heighten tension during puzzles or final reveals.
Futuristic Synthwave and IDM Influences
Add dynamic, glitchy beats and digital effects during gameplay to underscore the blend of hard science and speculative fiction.
This style supports a tech-driven, cerebral vibe befitting the quantum theme.

Graphics List
Probably something when player wins game :D 
Probably a book? We got 1 book in discord team messages. Is that ok as is or as edited?
Bunch of cool pictures that go with the story?
Light Flare 
Echo signals?


Fonts
In the game we use font {font name} everywhere.

Tools
Miro for designing dialogue, Godot for visuals.


Sketches

Initial game layout sketches / options. The artist suggested the image to be optional so the layout needs to allow it.
